SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/
TITLE: Home – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Katholische Universität Eichstätt-Ingolstadt: Startpage
Study at the KU
You would like to study at Germany's most popular University, too? Then you can either complete your entire studies with us or join us for an exchange program or one of our KU short programs. We are happy to provide advice and support and inform you about everything you need to know.
Millions in funding for responsible teaching practices
In the coming years, teaching at the KU will be linked tighter to societal challenges and tangible practical projects. For this, the University will receive approximately 3.4 million euros in funding. This funding is provided by the Foundation for Innovation in Higher Education as part of the “The World Is My Campus” call for proposals.
Find and apply for a degree program
Service for international staff and researchers
KU is Germany's most popular university for 4th time
There are awards that do not lose in significance even when they are awarded repeatedly: For the KU, this is particularly true for title of "Most Popular University in Germany", which it was once again awarded in the latest ranking by the online portal Studycheck. After 2021, 2022 and 2024, this is the fourth time that the KU has taken the top spot.
News
All news
25. May 2026
“Safeguarding the human”: Voices on Pope Leo’s encyclical
How should we interpret Pope Leo XIV’s new encyclical on artificial intelligence? Academics at the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt view…
07. May 2026
WFI team wins Cesim Elite Marketing Simulation
WFI students Anthony Ebert, Niklas Gerhard, and Ian Antolovic have won the Cesim Elite international business simulation competition in the EMEA…
06. May 2026
Gabriele Gien re-elected as KU President for a third term
Prof. Dr. Gabriele Gien remains President of the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt(KU). The election committee, formed in accordance with…
21. April 2026
Ancient world map shines in new light: Historians analyze Tabula Peutingeriana using MSI technology
It is nearly seven meters long and the only surviving large-scale world map from antiquity: The Tabula Peutingeriana depicts the known world of that…
Aid for Ukraine
360° Campus Tour
KU Shop
Sie wollen Ihre Verbundenheit mit unserer Universität zeigen? Oder suchen ein passendes Geschenk mit KU-Bezug? In unserem Shop werden Sie garantiert fündig!