SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/transfer
TITLE: Transfer – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_transfer.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Many university members are committed to furthering the exchange of knowledge between science, politics, the industry and civil society. The KU
Department of Education Innovation and Knowledge Transfer
coordinates all these initiatives and activities and provides support when it comes to their implementation and increasing their visibility.
The department’s activities are in line with the principles of good scientific practice, responsibility, and solidarity in education. A culture of committed science means that the University uses its scientific capacities for contributing solutions to social challenges.
We primarily focus on the mutual exchange of ideas with society as well as innovative educational concepts. Our projects are implemented in close collaboration with partner organizations from the knowledge cluster in the region and in the context of international exchange with collaboration partners in South America, Eastern Europe and Africa.
Our team is working together with all interested parties in order to fulfill the KU’s Third Mission. The office spaces of the department are located in the Eichstätt
Spitalstadt
(Am Anger 18) and are designed as an open meeting point for all University members and citizens of Eichstätt. The office is used as seminar room, space for encounter and functions as a display window for science and academia.
Knowledge cluster in the region Eichstätt-Ingolstadt
Die regionale Entwicklung fördern, gemeinsam gesellschaftliche Herausforderungen angehen und den internationalen Austausch gestalten - für eine zukunftsfähige und lebenswerte Region.
We promote social commitment!
At the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt, the active promotion of social commitment of its students and teaching staff is part of its tradition. In line with its Mission Statement, the University considers itself a committed institution that actively supports social, cultural, creative and church initiatives and projects.
For more information on the KU’s commitment and offers, please check our website.