SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/campus-life
TITLE: Campus Life – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_campus-life.html
------------------------------------------------------------

University Life
In addition to the central activities in research and teaching, university life is characterised by a wide range of cultural and social events and offers.  Sustainability, family friendliness and commitment are the main characteristics of life at the KU. Do you want to get involved in one of our groups or participate in university sports? Would you like to sing in one of the choirs or join one of the ensembles and bands, or do you enjoy theatre? Here you will find everything about university life at KU.
Sustainable KU
In 2010, the KU adopted its own sustainability concept. Its actions align with the principle of sustainability and are based on the concept of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD). The aim of ESD is to equip future decision makers with the necessary skills to shape our future and contribute to a more sustainable development of society.
This requires research and teaching to be linked closely, and can be truly successful and credible if the entire University campus itself is actively committed to sustainable development.
Family-friendly University
The KU has been dedicating over two decades to enhancing the harmony between family life and the academic environment. In 2004, it was the first Bavarian university to be recognized as a “Family-friendly University”. Since 2016, it has been a member of the best practice club “Familie in der Hochschule e. V.” and supports students and employees in all phases of life.
University Sports
The KU Sports Center runs all general university sports offers in Eichstätt and Ingolstadt. Furthermore, it is responsible for organizing and coordinating sports competitions in the region and beyond, as well as university sports tournaments and all independent sports groups.
Campus map
Art and culture
Our students and KU employees also actively shape cultural life on campus in their studies and free time: They make music in one of numerous ensembles or choirs, create art that is exhibited in the University Art Gallery or engage in the University’s drama group “KUmödianten”. All these fields are enriched by interdisciplinary participation from all groups of KU members – from students to the University Management.
Alumni & Fundraising
Canteen