SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/international
TITLE: International – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_international.html
------------------------------------------------------------

The KU - an international university
The KU is a cosmopolitan university with a broad international network. In addition to its strategic partnerships, it maintains collaborations with almost 300
partner universities
in over 60 countries worldwide. It promotes international mobility of its research staff, lecturers, administrative employees and students. All KU students have the opportunity to complete a study or internship stay abroad. The university also offers a broad range of double degree programs and other international study options.
The KU welcomes international guests from all over the world and attaches great importance to fostering its international campus culture that is also reflected in the high proportion of international students at the KU: About ten percent of our students come from over 60 different countries and enrich our daily campus life. All international guests and students benefit from personal supervision and support before, during and after their stay at KU.
Internationalization is a key focus area at KU. This does not least become evident in the numerous individual advice and support offers for different target groups. The central service point for all issues regarding internationalization at KU is the International Office.
Incoming - International students
Information for students from abroad who want to study at the KU. Access all services provided by our International Office here!
Outgoing - KU students
Information for KU students who want to spend a semester abroad.
Refugees or persons at risk
Information on admission, support, and funding opportunities for refugee and at-risk students and researchers
International guests
The Welcome Center of the International Office supports international guests before and during their stay at KU.
KU staff
Information on Support Services and Funding Opportunities for Academic and Professional Staff at KU
KU doctoral candidates
Information on support services and funding opportunities for KU doctoral candidates.
Erasmus+
For 35 years, the
Erasmus+ programme
and its predecessor programmes have opened up new perspectives for the organisation of mobility, as well as European and international educational cooperation, and are also a symbol of the European community and values.
KU's participation in the
Erasmus+ programme
is an important element of internationalisation and demonstrates KU's self-image as a European university with an international network.
Further information on all Erasmus+ programmes at KU can be found
here
.
Vacancies at the International Office
Student Assistant (m/f/d) in the area of “Welcome International Students”
starting September 14, 2026, for approx. 20 hours/month.
Place of work: Ingolstadt campus.
Find a detailed job description
here
.
Events of the IO
11
June
10:30
 
 until
 
 11:30
Work & Internships Abroad: How to Apply Successfully
Organizer: Servicestelle Internationale Praktika / International Career Services
12
June
12:30
 
 until
 
 13:30
Coffee Chat: Career Insights from an International Student
Organizer: International Office - Servicestelle Internationale Praktika und Karriereberatung
09
July
12:00
 
 until
 
 13:30
Summer Reception for Degree-Seeking International Students at KU - Meet & Greet your international career advisors and the KU Welcome Service!
Organizer: International Office - Servicestelle Internationale Praktika; Karriereberatung
Follow us: