SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/study-at-the-ku/experience-the-ku
TITLE: Experience the KU – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_study-at-the-ku_experience-the-ku.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Before your studies – study offer & information for interested prospective students
The KU is Bavaria's smallest university – and that's exactly what makes us special: personal support, short distances, and a lively community. In Eichstätt and Ingolstadt, you can expect modern facilities, excellent study conditions, and a quality of life that enriches both your studies and your everyday life. On this page, you can gain insights into our range of courses, get to know the campus and events, find information on applications, international programs, and advisory services, and get an impression of what makes the KU special for its students.
Discover our degree programs
Explore the range of courses offered at the KU, experience taster lectures, get to know our professors, and read testimonials from students to discover your prospects.
What sets the KU apart
The KU regularly scores top positions in rankings and is particularly praised for its modern facilities and personal support, combined with short distances and a vibrant campus life.
From school to KU
There are many ways to discover the KU — even before you start your studies. We accompany pupils in their transition from school to university. We offer through guided tours, lectures, workshops, and library visits for schools. (more information in German).
Events for interested prospective students
Many events invite interested potential students to visit the campus, where they can get a taste of different subjects and experience KU life — at information days, our (Virtual) Open Week, or other digital events.
KU Student Advisory Service
We’re here to help you with any questions you may have about choosing a subject, selecting subjects, and getting started with uni life—in a personal and confidential manner.
Accommodation and uni life
Before starting your studies, there are many questions to consider: How will you finance your studies? Are federal student grants (BAföG) or student loans a solution? How will you find an apartment in Eichstätt or Ingolstadt? And what about your leisure time? We have compiled many tips for your life in Eichstätt & Ingolstadt.
Information for international students
Here, international students can find all information they need for their application and enrollment as well as additional information about applying, language courses, and support services for starting their studies at the KU.
Application & enrollment
Good start into your study life: Here you will find all the information you need about applying and enrolling, the correct procedure step by step, and everything you need to know at a glance.
Welcome program
Orientation week & tips for your start at uni – Have a good start into study life and get to know fellow students and our campus.
Your DreamFuture at the KU
We have asked our students how they experience studying at the KU and what they would like to do after they graduate. The result is a series of exciting videos with lots of informative insights.
Information for student parents
Equal opportunities are a high priority at the KU. The University offers a wide range of support services and central contact points to enable students with children to successfully complete their studies.
Students with disabilities & chronic illnesses
The KU is a “University for everyone” and actively supports students with disabilities or chronic illnesses by providing advice, contact persons, and barrier-free services.
KU tip: Our newsletter for interested potential students
Whether you have just started your final year of school or graduated from high school, are in the middle of your Bachelor's degree, or are already considering a Master's program, many questions arise when making important educational and career decisions. The KU newsletter specifically for international students helps you keep track of everything and gain clarity. Alice and her colleague Armelle are the Degree Seeking Coordinators at our KU International Office. They are happy to provide you with tips on how to find out what program is best for you, explain the most important steps from application to enrollment, and introduce you to the diverse range of courses offered by the KU. This will enable you to confidently shape your own path—well-informed and well-prepared. Subscribe now and don't miss a thing!