SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/study-at-the-ku/experience-the-ku/information-for-international-students
TITLE: Information for international students – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_study-at-the-ku_experience-the-ku_information-for-international-students.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Information for international students
Good decisions start with curiosity — which is why we are especially pleased that you are interested in the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt (KU). We invite you to discover a place of study in the heart of Bavaria that combines academic excellence with a personal atmosphere and provides the space for you to realize your ambitions.
KU Study offer
Here you will find our entire range of study programs, specializations, subject combinations, and certificate courses.
FAQ for international students
Are you looking for helpful information about your studies at the KU and your stay in Germany? Here, international degree-seeking students and exchange students can find all the important information they need to prepare for their stay with us, settle in, and successfully complete their studies.
Application & enrollment
You can find all the information about the application and enrollment process for international students here.
During your studies
Here you will find all the information you need about organizing your studies, exams, student life at the KU, professional experience and the job market, and the steps you need to take to wrap up your studies.
Accommodation and study life at the KU
Here you’ll find all the information you need about finding housing and student life in Eichstätt and Ingolstadt, and get a sense of our two beautiful campuses.
International degree programs
We have compiled an overview of all our degree programs, which you can pursue entirely in English, partially in English, or in other languages.
Newsletter
KU offers an English-language newsletter specifically for international students and prospective international students. Our “Ask Alice” newsletter provides you with regular updates on studying at the KU, student life in Eichstätt and Ingolstadt, administrative matters, and life and study in Germany in general.
Brochure "Studying at the KU - 20 questions and answers"
Studying at the KU - 20 questions and answers (in English)
Estudiar en la KU - 20 preguntas y respuestas (en español)
Studieren an der KU - 20 Fragen und Antworten (auf Deutsch)
For general information about studying in Germany
, we recommend the following websites:
Study in Germany - Land of Ideas
German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD)
Studying-in-Germany.org
Additional information for international students
Information on visa & residence permit for Germany
International students often need a visa to enter Germany. A residence permit is also sometimes required. Here you will find all the important information regarding requirements, the application process, and other administrative matters.
Health insurance
Valid health insurance is required to study in Germany and for enrollment at the KU. You can find all regulations, important information, and requirements here.
Learn German at the KU
Knowledge of German is an important part of your studies and daily life at the KU. The KU offers international students a wide range of German language courses. Find out more here.
Services of the International Office
Do you need additional support or have questions about any of the topics for prospective international students? Please feel free to contact the KU International Office, which offers a wide range of support services for internationals.
KU Connect - enter the German labor market
KU Connect is a DAAD-supported project which supports international students of various disciplines and subject areas from preparations for their studies during the entire coursr of study to entering the German labor market.
Contact us
Contact person
Armelle
 Langenwald
International degree seeking students coordinator - Campus Ingolstadt
Phone
+49 841 937-21970
E-mail
welcome@ku.de
Building
Hauptbau
| 
 
 
 
 Room: HB-209
Alice
 Rohn
International degree seeking students coordinator - Campus Eichstätt
Phone
+49 8421 93-21161
E-mail
welcome@ku.de
Building
Domplatz 8
| 
 
 
 
 Room: DP8-203 | Campus Eichstätt