SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/study-at-the-ku/experience-the-ku/discover-our-degree-programs
TITLE: Discover our degree programs – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_study-at-the-ku_experience-the-ku_discover-our-degree-programs.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Discover our degree programs
Studying with perspective
Discover our diverse range of courses — from Bachelor's and Master's degrees to teacher training programs. To help you get to know the KU before you start your studies, we have put together a variety of formats: in taster lectures and the “Ask the KU Profs” series, science is explained in an approachable way and you gain interesting insights into the subjects. Student testimonials show what you can learn in the KU's degree programs – and what opportunities are open to you afterwards.
Degree programs from A to Z
At the KU, you have almost unlimited possibilities to tailor your studies to your own interests: choose from nearly 100 degree programs and combinable subjects to design your studies according to your personal interests.
Our fields of study
Our degree programs – grouped by field of study.
Events for interested potential students
At our events for prospective students, you can get a first impression of the subjects of your interest. Here, you have the opportunity to attend lectures and get a taste of university life.
Studies & perspective
We have asked our students what studying at the KU means to them and what opportunities it opens up for them. The result is a series of inspiring videos about their dream futures.
Science explained simply
In our science series, KU professors show in an exciting and entertaining way how their research shapes the degree programs— and provide insights that make you want to study.
Research
At the KU, research and teaching go hand in hand. This means  that we always teach at the cutting edge of scientific knowledge. This shapes the degree programs at the KU and is important for the future prospects of our students.
KU tips: Our newsletter for interested potential students
Whether you have just started your final year of school or graduated from high school, are in the middle of your Bachelor's degree, or are already considering a Master's program, many questions arise when making important educational and career decisions. The KU newsletter specifically for international students helps you keep track of everything and gain clarity. Alice and her colleague Armelle are the Degree Seeking Coordinators at our KU International Office. They are happy to provide you with tips on how to find out what program is best for you, explain the most important steps from application to enrollment, and introduce you to the diverse range of courses offered by the KU. This will enable you to confidently shape your own path—well-informed and well-prepared. Subscribe now and don't miss a thing!