SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/research
TITLE: Research – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_research.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Research at the KU
Research at the KU is
multifaceted
and reflects the whole range of
research topics
and subject areas at the KU. Research is carried out at all
chairs and professorships
as well as in
special
research institutions
.
The KU offers an
ideal environment
for research: in addition to an extensive library with a unique stock of sources, research and media laboratories, numerous meeting places and creative minds.
Boost for new research projects with proFOR+
Current calls for research proposals
Selection of externally funded research projects
Research promotion and academic careers
Research promotion
and
a
cademic careers
are a particular concern of the KU.
The
Research Service Center (ZFF)
is the central contact and service point for all inquiries of a strategic and operational nature - with a special focus on the initiation and acquisition of peer-reviewed third-party funded research projects. The ZFF informs and advises researchers at all stages of their projects and career stages.
Research Service Center
Academic Careers
Latest announcements
News from research
21. April 2026
Ancient world map shines in new light: Historians analyze Tabula Peutingeriana using MSI technology
It is nearly seven meters long and the only surviving large-scale world map from antiquity: The Tabula Peutingeriana depicts the known world of that…
02. March 2026
Beating traffic jams: DFG project aims to optimize urban supply chains
Around 4.3 billion parcels are sent in Germany every year – a significant proportion of which end up in densely populated city centers. There,…
27. January 2026
More than scarce: The power games over water in Iran
Water is far more than a scarce resource in Iran. It is a political issue, an instrument of power and a central element in the history of the nation…
Current events
No news available.
(Last update September 2025)