SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/study-at-the-ku
TITLE: Study at the KU – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_study-at-the-ku.html
------------------------------------------------------------

Study at the KU
More than just a degree: Your individual study program - sustainable and with close personal support. The KU is open to students of all faiths. The University's Catholic character stands for providing education that is rooted in values: The KU places particular importance on not only imparting specialist knowledge, but also social skills and actively encouraging personal growth and social commitment.
Our approx. 5,000 students learn and study in a welcoming atmosphere and benefit from personal supervision, an interdisciplinary study offer, excellent facilities and a global network of more than 260 partner universities.
Experience the KU
Discover the KU – our academic programs, campus life, international programs, and everything that makes studying here special.
International Students
You are an international and would like to study at the KU? We are happy to support you along the way and provide you with all information you will need.
Overview of full study offer
Discover our diverse study offer - From Bachelor's and Master's programs to teacher training.
Information for students
New at the KU? We have compiled all information and tips for starting your studies. Here, we also answer all questions on your degree program and course of studies. You will also find helpful administrative information.
Tips and information for newly enrolled students
To help you find your way around the KU and feel at home right from the start, we’ve put together all the important information for our newly enrolled students here.
Studium.Pro
Studium.Pro stands for education with added value at the KU. Here, all students have the opportunity to broaden their horizons, take a wide range of courses regardless of their degree program, and further develop their personal growth.
News on studying at the KU
03. June 2026
Millions in funding for responsible teaching practices
In the coming years, teaching at the KU will be linked tighter to societal challenges and tangible practical projects. For this, the University will…
28. January 2026
KU voted Germany’s most popular University for 4th time
There are awards that do not lose in significance even when they are awarded repeatedly: For the KU, this is particularly true for title of "Most…
10. December 2025
Psychology Master's at the KU scores in all categories
The Master's degree program in Psychology at the KU is rated above average by students in all categories. This is the result of the latest ranking by…