SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/die-ku/kontakt/presse/media-information-detail/psychology-masters-at-the-ku-scores-in-all-categories
TITLE: Psychology Master's at the KU scores in all categories – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_die-ku_kontakt_presse_media-information-detail_psychology-masters-at-the-ku-scores-in-all-categories.html
------------------------------------------------------------

12-10-2025
Psychology Master's at the KU scores in all categories
The Master's degree program in Psychology at the KU is rated above average by students in all categories. This is the result of the latest ranking by the Center for Higher Education Development (CHE). The degree program has once again secured a place in the top group nationwide.
The CHE University Ranking comprises the opinions of over 120,000 students on the study conditions at their university and facts on studies, teaching, facilities and research in around 40 subjects at more than 300 universities. According to CHE, the university ranking is the most comprehensive and detailed degree ranking in the German-speaking world. Amongst others, the Department of Psychology was re-evaluated this year. Three and six years ago, the KU Master's program in Psychology was already in the top group.
Among other things, the Master's students assess the "general study situation", the "course offerings" and the "study organization". There are also categories such as "support from teaching staff", "support during studies" as well as digital teaching elements, practical orientation and the transition to postgraduate studies. In all of these areas, the Master's degree program in Psychology at the KU is rated well above average by the students.
The result for the question of "Support from teaching staff" and "Study organization" is particularly striking – here the KU achieved an average score of 4.5 and 4.6 out of 5 possible stars respectively. When asked about the appropriate group sizes in courses, over 86 percent of KU students even awarded the top rating of 5 stars.
Looking at the detailed evaluation, the KU's Master's degree program stands out in terms of the courses offered, particularly due to the didactic skills of the lecturers and the support provided during studies, such as the quality, accessibility and completeness of materials for courses and examinations. In addition, respondents praised the quality of the study organization, for example with regard to courses not overlapping and access to courses. Students at the KU also rate digital teaching elements and practical orientation of the teaching offered as very good and thus significantly better than their fellow students at other universities.
The Master’s ranking, to which the detailed evaluation refers, can be found at
www.heystudium.de/masterranking
. It is also published in the magazine "ZEIT Campus" on December 11.
Back to overview