SOURCE_URL: https://www.ku.de/en/the-ku
TITLE: Study at the KU – KU
SOURCE_FILE: en_the-ku.html
------------------------------------------------------------

The KU
The Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt (KU) is an excellent place of teaching and learning, and it is also a community. As the only Catholic university in the German-speaking world, it has a unique profile in the higher education sector. It is characterized by excellent teaching, strong research, and social responsibility. The KU is supported by a
Catholic foundation
.
Profile
The KU is a cosmopolitan campus university that combines interdisciplinarity with an international focus. Studying and researching in Eichstätt and Ingolstadt means working in a welcoming atmosphere where our students benefit from small groups, individual consultation, and close working relationships.
Organization
The University Management at the KU consists of the president, the three vice presidents, and the chancellor. It is supported by a Catholic foundation that was established by the bishops of Bavaria. Its name is the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt Foundation (Stiftung Katholische Universität Eichstätt-Ingolstadt).
The University Administration provides services for students and staff at the KU and ensures that the University is able to fulfill its tasks in teaching and research. The University Administration is responsible for areas such as budgeting, human resources, and facility management.
Eight faculties at two campuses
The KU has two campuses. Seven faculties are based in Eichstätt, while the Ingolstadt campus is home to the Ingolstadt School of Management. In both locations the cafeteria, lecture halls, library, and computer labs are all just a short walk away from one another.
Central facilities
Foundation
Supporters
Job advertisements and vacancies
HR Development and Professional Training
The KU is open to students of all faiths and offers more than 50 subjects from the fields of the humanities, social sciences and cultural studies, mathematics and business administration. With approx. 5000 students, 120 professors and more than 380 research associates and a large number of lecturers, the KU offers a friendly and welcoming atmosphere and an excellent staff-to-student ratio.
The term ‘Catholic’ means ‘universal’, ‘all embracing’. With this in mind, the KU is always concerned with people and society as a whole. The University attaches great importance to be involved in the community beyond its campus, to engage in dialogue, and to take on responsibility. Therefore, one of its important focus areas is interdisciplinary and international networking. It encourages and promotes voluntary work, and is involved in a wide range of partnerships that connect the University with wider society. This makes the KU a unique place for people to come together in an excellent research and teaching environment.
The KU considers itself an academic community that conveys knowledge and teaches social skills on the basis of Christian values and the Christian view of human life. Open dialogue and critical thinking are key characteristics of the University’s community and its learning and teaching practice. Based on these fundamental principles, the University is committed to contributing to development in and for wider society, to sustainability, to equality of opportunity, and to interdisciplinary and international exchange.
The KU takes pride in its open, research-friendly working atmosphere that promotes personal initiative and commitment and provides its researchers with offers that are tailored to their individual research interests and needs. The KU Research Service Center and support programs for early-career researchers at the KU actively contribute to the development of independent researchers who combine scientific excellence with an international focus.
Preserving creation is one of the KU’s key principles. The KU has set down a sustainability concept in 2010. In 2019, the KU was the first university in Germany to be awarded the European certificate “EMASplus” for establishing a holistic sustainability management that also takes into account ecological, social and economic factors.