SOURCE_URL: file:///Users/manuel/Documents/GitHub/LLM-ChatBox-for-KU/data/raw_pdfs/DS-Hinweis-Bewerbungen_EN_US_.pdf
TITLE: DS-Hinweis-Bewerbungen_EN_US_.pdf
SOURCE_FILE: DS-Hinweis-Bewerbungen_EN_US_.pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

[Page 1]
Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt Foundation 
Ecclesiastical foundation under public law 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on handling your data and rights in accordance with 
sections 15, 16 and 23 of the Law on Data Protection in the Catholic 
Church in Germany (Gesetz über den Kirchlichen Datenschutz, KDG) as 
part of the application process 
We hereby inform you about the processing of your personal data by the Catholic University of 
Eichstätt-Ingolstadt and the rights to which you are entitled under data protection law. 
 
 
Body responsible for data processing and data protection officer 
 
Responsible for data processing: 
Catholic University Eichstätt-Ingolstadt (KU) represented 
by the President Prof. Dr. Gabriele Gien 
Ostenstraße 26 
85072 Eichstätt, 
Germany 
Phone: +49 8421 93 0 
E-mail: info@ku.de 
You can reach our data protection officer at the above address or at: 
Mr. Ziar Kabir 
SCO-CON:SULT GmbH 
Hauptstraße 27 
53604 Bad Honnef, Germany 
E-mail: info@sco-consult.de 
Phone: +49 2224 98829-0 
 
Further contacts for data protection issues are: 
 
Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt Foundation 
Legal Affairs and Data Protection Department 
Luitpoldstraße 10 
85072 Eichstätt, Germany 
E-mail: stiftung-datenschutz@ku.de 
Phone: + 49 8421 93-21201 
 
Data categories used and source of data 
 
The categories of personal data processed include, in particular, gender, first name, last name, name 
affixes, nationality, contact data (such as private address, (mobile) phone number, e-mail address), log 
data generated during the use of the IT systems, and other data from applicant management (e.g., 
résumé, data on training, skills and competencies). 
 
You send us your personal data as part of the applicant management process. In addition, we may have 
received data from third parties (e.g. employment agencies). 

[Page 2]
Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt Foundation 
Ecclesiastical foundation under public law 
2 
 
 
Purposes and legal basis of data processing 
 
We process your personal data in compliance with the regulations of the Law on Data Protection in the 
Catholic Church in Germany (Gesetz über den kirchlichen Datenschutz, KDG). 
 
The data processing serves the purpose of carrying out the application procedure. By submitting your 
application data, you consent to the processing of your personal data in accordance with Section 6 (1) 
b) KDG in conjunction with Section 53 KDG. 
 
 
Data transfer 
 
Within our University, only those persons and offices (e.g. subject departments and staff 
representatives) receive your personal data that are involved in the application process. 
 
We will only pass on your application data within our University at your express request if you are not 
considered for a position and another vacant position matches your requirements profile or will be 
available in the foreseeable future. 
 
 
Data subject rights 
 
According to the KDG, you have the following rights: 
 
If your personal data is processed, you have the right to receive information about the data stored 
about you (Section 17 KDG). 
 
If incorrect personal data is processed, you have a right to rectification (Section 18 KDG). 
 
If the legal requirements are met, you can request the deletion or restriction of processing as well as 
object to the processing (Sections 19, 20 and 23 KDG). 
 
If you have consented to the data processing or if a contract for data processing exists and the data 
processing is carried out with the help of automated procedures, you may have a right to data 
portability (Section 22 KDG). 
 
If you make use of your above-mentioned rights, the responsible person will verify whether legal 
prerequisites are fulfilled. 
 
 
Right of appeal 
 
You have the option of contacting the above-mentioned data protection officer, the Foundation or our 
data protection supervisory authority with a complaint. 
 
Our data protection supervisor is: Joint data protection supervision of the Bavarian (arch)dioceses, 
Kapellenstr. 4, 80333 Munich, Germany. 

[Page 3]
Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt Foundation 
Ecclesiastical foundation under public law 
3 
 
 
Duration of storage of personal data 
 
If you are not considered in the application process, we will delete your personal data six months after 
the position has been filled or return your documents to you. The retention period is based on the 
possibility of legal action under Section 15 of the General Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines 
Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG) and the associated objection periods. A longer storage of your data is 
only possible with your explicit consent. 
 
Right of withdrawal of consent 
If you have consented to processing by the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt by making a 
corresponding declaration, you can revoke your consent at any time with effect for the future. The 
legality of the data processing carried out on the basis of the consent up to the revocation is not 
affected by this. In this case, participation in the application process will end and we will immediately 
delete your application data or return it to you. 
 
Obligation to provide the data 
 
In order to participate in the application process, you are required to provide your data. We need your 
data to select applicants or candidates for the vacancy. If you do not provide the required data, your 
application cannot be considered.