SOURCE_URL: file:///Users/manuel/Documents/GitHub/LLM-ChatBox-for-KU/data/raw_pdfs/Ausschreibung_Fellowships_STS_englische_Version_final.pdf
TITLE: Ausschreibung_Fellowships_STS_englische_Version_final.pdf
SOURCE_FILE: Ausschreibung_Fellowships_STS_englische_Version_final.pdf
------------------------------------------------------------

[Page 1]
 
 
 
 
 
The Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt (KU) is distinguished not only by its excellence in teach-
ing and learning, but also by its vibrant academic community. As the only Catholic university in the 
German higher education landscape, it occupies a unique position. KU is renowned for its outstanding 
teaching, strong research profile, and commitment to social responsibility. The university is supported 
by a Catholic foundation. 
 
Across its eight faculties, KU offers a broad range of disciplines to approximately 5,000 students. 
Around 900 staff members from diverse confessional and intellectual backgrounds contribute to the 
university’s academic life. Guided by a Christian understanding of the human person, KU fosters a cul-
ture of scholarship and education grounded in responsibility, critical reflection, and a commitment to 
the common good. 
 
School of Transformation and Sustainability (STS) 
 
Call for Applications 
 
Fellowships (m/w/d) for the academic period 
2026/27 and 2027/28 
 
 
Who we are: 
The School of Transformation and Sustainability (STS) was established in October 2023 as a 
new faculty dedicated to addressing the major challenges of our time through an interdiscipli-
nary approach. 
STS’s innovative structure and programmes are designed to analyse the political, social, and 
ecological changes of our time, fostering a new understanding of science and society that can 
navigate these changes. Through co-creative collaboration with our fellows and practice part-
ners worldwide, the STS is systematically expanding its transformation knowledge for a suc-
cessful sustainable development. 
A strong commitment to the common good lies at the heart of our work and scientific efforts. 
 
 
Who we are looking for: 
The School of Transformation and Sustainability (STS) is pleased to announce its inaugural 
fellowship programme for the academic years 2026/27 and 2027/28. 
We are looking for passionate thinkers, researchers and practitioners, including advanced 
postdoctoral researchers, to join us in exploring the social-ecological and other intersections 
of transformation and sustainability. Possible fellowship options include junior-, senior- or dig-
ital-fellowships. 
Applications are welcome from all fields of research that intersect with science and society, 
regardless of disciplinary background. Fellowships may be awarded for a period of at least 
three, and not more than ten months. 
Successful applicants will take up their fellowship during the respective academic year, be-
ginning either on 1 October 2026, or 1 October 2027. 
 
We are looking for candidates, who… 
➢ wish to use their academic or practical work to provide strategic insights into the further 
development of the STS and help shape the School’s profile. 
➢ pursue a thematically or methodologically innovative research or development project that 
aligns with the inter- and transdisciplinary research agenda of the STS. 

[Page 2]
 
 
➢ are interested in close collaboration with the STS team, as well as with academic and civil 
society partners. 
➢ are willing to engage in dialogue and knowledge-transfer formats with regional and inter-
national stakeholders, for example through guest lectures, contributions to the STS talks, 
roundtables, workshops or innovative teaching formats. 
➢ present a convincing plan for developing a third-party funding proposal or a comparable 
academic initiative in the field of transformation and sustainability during the fellowship 
period. 
➢ are interested in contributing to STS research projects, for example through conceptual 
contributions, joint funding applications, methodological advice, or thematic collaboration. 
 
What we offer: 
STS Fellows will benefit from: 
• 
a workspace and an inspiring environment for focused work on a research project, 
potentially in connection with a third-party funding application. 
• 
access to the university’s research infrastructure, facilities, and technical resources. 
• 
financial support, depending upon the format of the fellowship, to be determined based 
on mutually agreed responsibilities, as defined in a fellowship agreement. 
 
Application: 
Applications should be submitted by 30 June 2026. Please send your application by email to 
fellowship-sts@ku.de, addressed to Prof. Dr. Harald Pechlaner, Founding Chair of the School 
of Transformation and Sustainability (STS). All application documents should be combined 
into a single PDF file. Applications may be submitted in German or English. 
 
Your application must include: 
(1) Letter of Motivation (1–2 pages): Please indicate the intended duration of the fellow-
ship, the preferred period of residence and how the proposed research project relates 
to the STS agenda 
(2) Description of the Research Project (max. 5,000 words) 
(3) Short Academic Biography / Curriculum Vitae (max. 2 pages) including key academic 
achievements and, if applicable, references 
(4) List of Publications including max. three selected publications submitted as full texts 
 
 
Please note the KU Data Protection Statement for the Application Process, which is available 
for download on the KU website: www.ku.de/die-ku/stellenangebote 
By submitting your application, you confirm that you have read and acknowledged the data 
protection information and privacy policy.