International students (with foreign university entrance qualification)
Additional regulations for the application
Link to enrollment portal
International application via uni-assist
Link to uni assist
Grade conversion to German university entrance qualification grades
Advice
Application documents
Special requirements for admission-restricted programs
University entrance qualification
Preparatory college
Language requirements
German intensive course
Additional regulations for the application
A number of special requirements and conditions apply to so-called “Bildungsausländer”, i.e. international applicants and German nationals who do not have a German university or Master's entrance qualification. In addition, all general regulations for application and enrollment at the KU also apply. 

PLEASE NOTE: International students must always submit an application for their desired degree program. This also applies to degree programs without admission restrictions. Please check the respective English-language program details page on the KU study offer website for the specific application deadline.

As an international student with a foreign university entrance qualification, you can only apply for the first semester of the degree program of your choice. After a successful application as well as after direct admission, you will always be enrolled in the first semester of the program.

Go directly to KU enrollment portal
International application via uni-assist
Preliminary review for internationals who are not members of the EU

For some of our degree programs, the preliminary review of application documents from international applicants is carried out by the service provider uni-assist e.V.

Uni-assist checks the documents you submit (e.g., high school diploma, first professional university degree (known as MZB or Master's entrance qualification), minimum grade, etc.) and forwards your application to the KU after successful preliminary review.

Who has to apply via uni-assist?

To find out whether your desired degree program uses this procedure, please refer directly to the respective details on the KU's study offer website.

Generally, the uni-assist procedure applies to the following groups:

Bachelor's degree programs: Applicants with a university entrance qualification (HZB) from outside the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, or Norway.
Master's programs: Applicants with a first professional qualification (e.g., Bachelor's degree) from outside the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, or Norway.
Important: Only the country of the school or university degree is relevant. Additional degrees within the EU/EEA do not change the jurisdiction of uni-assist.

Application process via uni-assist

If you belong to the group of people who must submit their application via uni-assist, please note the following:

Submission: Apply exclusively via the uni-assist portal. Parallel registration on the KU portal is not necessary and will delay the process.
Processing time: Allow approximately 4–6 weeks for uni-assist to process your application from the date of receipt of the complete documents and payment of the processing fee (here you will find information on the deadlines and processing times of uni-assist).
Import & feedback: After successful verification, uni-assist forwards the data to the KU. Importing the data into our system takes a few working days. You will then automatically receive an e-mail with your login details for the KU portal.
Academic review: The relevant KU selection committees then review the program-specific qualification requirements.
Special notes

Status inquiries: We process all applications as quickly as possible. Please refrain from inquiring about the processing status. Status changes are displayed directly in our application portal, and you will also receive an e-mail.
Appeal: If uni-assist rejects your documents, please contact uni-assist directly with your concern.
Go directly to uni-assist
Grade conversion to German university entrance qualification grades

Best achievable grade (maximum grade) in the foreign grading system 
Lowest passing grade in the foreign grading system 
Grade to be converted to the German grading system 
Corresponding grade on KU grading scale ---
Convert
Advice
If you are an international student with a foreign university entrance qualification and have questions about a degree program, financing your studies or scholarships, please contact the KU International Office  or send an e-mail to welcome@ku.de. 

Application documents for international students with foreign university entrance qualification
In addition to the required application documents and any additional documents that might be required for specific degree programs, we need the following documents from you so that we can process your application:

Translation of your educational certificates into German or English by a court-certified translator, including proof of the respective evaluation/grading systems with the required minimum passing grade as well as the highest possible grade,
APS certificate for applicants from China, India, and Vietnam,
Proof of your German language skills (e.g. German language examination with at least level 2 or the TestDaF examination of the Goethe Institute with at least levels 4-4-4-4. The examination must be submitted at the latest upon enrollment at the beginning of the semester),
Proof of German language proficiency on level A1/A2, provided that you want to participate in our preparatory intensive German course prior to your studies (participation is not possible for Master's degree programs with restricted admission). 
Special requirements in the procedure for admission-restricted degree programs for international students with foreign university entrance qualification
There may be other special requirements in the admission procedure, in particular a fixed required percentage of international students for study places.

Only foreign or stateless applicants who are not citizens of a member state of the European Union and who have not obtained their higher education entrance qualification in the Federal Republic of Germany or at a German school abroad are considered in the required percentage of internationals. EU citizens are treated the same as Germans under admission law. Five per cent of study places are reserved for admission under the required percentage of internationals. If more international students have applied to a university than there are study places available within the quota of 5%, the applicants are selected according to their qualifications (usually the average grade of the higher education entrance qualification). Applications for recognition of a case of hardship cannot be submitted. 

Please note: International students must generally take a specific German test for enrollment, for example either the German language examination with at least level 2 or the TestDaF examination of the Goethe Institute with at least levels 4-4-4-4. Any deviations are specified in the respective examination regulations. 

For more detailed information on the requirements for the degree programs, please refer to the information on our study offer website or ask our KUala bot.

Higher education entrance qualification: Information for international students without a German university entrance qualification (Bildungsausländer)
In order to be able to directly take up an undergraduate study program at the KU (at our University, this can be a Bachelor’s degree program, teacher training program with State Examination or the Magister in Catholic Theology), your international degree must be equivalent to a German university entrance qualification.

If you are not sure whether your previous academic education is suitable for your chosen degree program at our University, you can carry out an initial check yourself at the anabin database . 

The DAAD admissions database is also a helpful source of information for undergraduate degrees, which are usually a prerequisite for a Master's degree.

A review of your previous educational history may, e.g. have revealed the following results:

Direct university admission: General higher education entrance qualification from abroad
International prospective students whose secondary school-leaving certificate is equivalent to the German Abitur can apply for university studies in Germany. In most cases, direct university access to an undergraduate degree program is also possible if a student already holds a degree (e.g. Bachelor’s degree) from a recognized university abroad. If this applies to you, tick “general university entrance qualification obtained abroad” in the online portal under the section “university entrance qualification”.

Direct subject-specific university admission: Subject-specific university entrance qualification from abroad
If your secondary school-leaving certificate is not equivalent to a German Abitur, you may have a direct subject-specific university entrance qualification: This means that international prospective students whose secondary school-leaving certificate is recognized in principle, but does not provide entrance qualification for general education but for a subject-specific field or certain vocational field, can generally only choose subjects from the relevant field (e.g. only humanities or only natural sciences). For some countries, successful periods of study at a recognized higher education institution must also be proven in addition to the school-leaving certificate. The required duration of the study periods may vary depending on the country and school-leaving qualification. In this case, you can also apply directly for a corresponding university degree program at the KU, but only for the subject that you have previously studied or for closely related degree programs. If this applies to you, tick “Subject-specific university entrance qualification obtained abroad” in the online portal under the section “university entrance qualification”.

Indirect university access: Subject-specific university entrance qualification from abroad plus preparatory college (Studienkolleg)
International prospective students whose educational certificates do not provide direct access to higher education may have the opportunity to compensate for this by attending a preparatory college (Studienkolleg). The preparatory college must be attended for one year in addition to the school leaving certificate and must be successfully completed with the assessment test. The subject orientation results from the course specialization chosen at the preparatory college. If this applies to you, for technical reasons, please tick “Subject-specific university entrance qualification obtained abroad” in the online portal under the section “university entrance qualification” although this is not formally correct.

Preparatory college (Studienkolleg): Information for international students without a German university entrance qualification (Bildungsausländer)
It may be necessary for you to complete a preparatory course before starting your studies.

If the review of your application documents shows that you can be assigned to a preparatory college, you will have to prove German language skills at level B2 already at the time of application. 

It is not possible for prospective students to apply directly to a Studienkolleg. Assignment to the Bavarian preparatory colleges is made by the Bavarian universities (to the Studienkolleg Munich) or by the Bavarian universities of applied sciences (to the Studienkolleg Coburg). 

In order for you to be assigned to a preparatory college, the KU Student Office will need your complete application documents for international students with foreign university entrance qualification. 

If you have to attend a preparatory college before starting your studies at the KU, please proceed as follows: Apply for the degree program that you would like to study at the KU after successfully passing the assessment test. You can submit a corresponding application during the application process. Prospective students are allocated according to the degree program applied for.  

Deadline for being assigned to a preparatory college

The deadline for assignment to a preparatory college (Studienkolleg) for the winter semester is from April to July 15, for the summer semester from December to January 15. 

 

Language requirements
Most degree programs at the KU are taught in German. This means that — provided you meet the other admission requirements — you can only be admitted to the program if you provide appropriate proof of language proficiency (German language proficiency). If you do not yet meet the language requirements for a German-language degree program at the KU, you may be eligible for what is known as “DSH admission,” which would allow you to take the DSH examination in Eichstätt or participate in our German intensive course (the minimum requirement for the course is German A2, as demonstrated by an entrance test). For our English-language degree programs, you generally need to provide proof of B2-level proficiency according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. For all Bachelor's degree programs: You must demonstrate C1-level German proficiency (DSH, TestDaF, or Goethe-Institut). Different language requirements apply to some Master's degree programs (e.g. English proficiency, lower German proficiency, and proficiency in other languages). If you are applying for a Master's degree program with restricted admission, you must demonstrate that you meet the language requirements at the time of application; that is, prior participation in the DSH course is not possible for Master's degree programs with restricted admission.

Please check the respectively relevant language requirements for the program of your choice at the Study offer page or ask our KUala Bot.

The KU accepts these certificates as proof of German language proficiency

The KU accepts these certificates as proof of English language proficiency

German intensive course
At the KU, our intensive German course to prepare for the DSH only starts in the winter semester. Participation is only possible with admission to a German-language degree program at the KU. Please apply for the degree program that you would like to study at the KU after successfully passing the German test. During the application process, you can indicate that you would like to attend the intensive course. 

For the German intensive course, you must provide proof of German language proficiency at level A1/A2 at the time of application.  