In early 2022, KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt opened its new Institute for Machine Learning and Data Science in Ingolstadt.
It is a central building block in establishing a focus in digitalization at KU. 
At the institute, scientific foundations are created - and taught in degree programs - that help to exploit the potential of digitalization. 
Approaches, that are pursued here, concern for example the urgently needed development of mathematical foundations, which allow the establishment of success guarantees for machine learning algorithms. 
Such enable the use of novel, extremely powerful machine learning techniques in medical and safety applications. 
Another key goal is to create opportunities to exploit the potential of digitalization locally in individual data spheres and to avoid processing sensitive data on central mainframes, i.e., in the cloud, which would compromise security.
Digital data and media are ubiquitous today. Digitalization is only at the beginning. 
It is now increasingly beginning to permeate and reshape all aspects of our lives. 
One of the central challenges of our time is to make profitable use of their enormous, hitherto only rudimentarily exploited potential and to develop them responsibly in the process. 
The Mathematical Institute for Machine Learning and Data Science at the Catholic University Eichstätt-Ingolstadt will devote itself to this task.
Since winter semester 2022/2023, MIDS at KU offers a completely new degree program. 
At the Ingolstadt location, future-oriented topics will be taught in a historical environment. 
All information about the bachelor's degree program Data Science can be found on the program page as well as on the student advising page.
Subject to the approval of the Ministry, the new English-language Master's program in Data Science will start at the KU in the winter semester 2025 / 2026.

MIDS Seminar
The MIDS Seminar always takes place on Wednesdays at 10.30 am in room Georgianum-101
The following dates are planned:

29.04.2026
06.05.2026
13.05.2026
Fabian Stallbauer
“Small Random Initialization for Matrix Completion with Vanilla Gradient Descent”
27.05.2026
Hannes Matt
“Existence of maximally spread out measures on quasi-convex subsets in infinite dimensions”
03.06.2026
10.06.2026
Catherine George
17.06.2026
Bernd Käßemodel (TU Chemnitz)
24.06.2026
Chang Peng
01.07.2026 / MIDS Sommerfest (HB-GH)
Prof. Dr. Daniel Schnurr (Universität Regensburg)
“The European AI Act: Implementation and New Challenges”
08.07.2026
15.07.2026
The speakers and the topics of the talks will always be published on this page in a timely manner. Please contact the organizers of the seminar if you have any questions.

Contact Persons
Felix Bartel
Dr. Felix Bartel
Research Associate

E-mail Felix.Bartel@ku.de
Room: GEOG-205(Collegium Georgianum in Ingolstadt)

Overview of past talks
Wintersemester 2025/26
September 17
Juntian Chen (Atmospheric Dynamics and Predictability, University of Hamburg)
"On the investigation of non-hydrostatic effects in the ICON model"
October 01
Erwin Riegler (ETH Zurich)
“Lossy Compression of General Random Variables”
October 15
Fabian Schwickert (Fraunhofer-Institut für Verkehrs- und Infrastruktursysteme)
“Increasing and Certifying Local Robustness of Neural Networks with Adversarial Training and Lipschitz Continuity”
October 29
Ilya Krishtal (Northern Illinois University)
“Carleson Frames”
November 05
Ivan Penkov (Constructor University)
“A problem in number theory motivated by representation theory”
November 12
Chang Peng
“Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model”
November 19
Yvonne Ruckstuhl
"Parameter Estimation in Numerical Weather Prediction: From Ensemble Methods to Stochastic Galerkin Approaches"
November 26
Philomène Dufour (Uni Hamburg)
“Introduction to the Generalized Lagrangian Mean (GLM) Theory”
December 03
Marc Tiofack Kenfack
“Quantifying dynamical regimes in geophysical flows via Optimal Balance”
December 10
Javad Mashreghi (Université Laval)
“Analytic Characterizations of Convexity via Blaschke Products”
December 17
Junyu Zhou
"Optimal Rates for Generalization of Gradient Descent Methods with Deep Neural Networks"
January 14 / GEOG-201!
Jan Boeckmann
“A Machine Learning Approach to Model Runoff Behaviour in Heavy Rain Events”
January 21
Michael Speckbacher
“Spectral deviation of concentration operators on reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces”
January 28
Felix Bartel
“$L_2$-Marcinkiewicz-Zygmund inequalities”
Wintersemester 2024/25
October 16: Anders Hansen (University of Cambridge) 
"On the consistent reasoning paradox of intelligence and optimal trust in AI: The power of `I don't know'"
October 23: Andrei Caragea
"Partial results towards extending Chebotarev's theorem on Fourier submatrices"
October 30: Raphael Schulz
"Derivation and investigations of effective dispersion models for electroosmotic flow with rigid and free boundaries in a thin strip"
November 13: Thomas Jahn
"Besov regularity of random wavelet series"
November 20: Hannes Matt 
"Linear regression with overparameterized linear neural networks: Tight upper and lower bounds for implicit $\ell^1$-regularization"
November 27: Felix Voigtlaender
"Sampling numbers of the Fourier side Barron spaces"
December 18: Ojesh Koul
"Balanced asymptotic models for the earth's troposphere"
January 08: Hao Liang
"The nonconforming locking-free virtual element method for the poroelasticity model"
January 15: Maximilian Rötzer
"Combining microbial modeling and soil structure dynamics for an improved"
January 22: Tatsiana Bardachova
"Towards the assimilation of dual-polarization radar data"
January 29: Simon Mader
"A supervised machine learning framework to predict the request fit for dynamic dial-a-ride problems"

Data Science Studentes Veronika Rybak, Ruslan Tsibirov, Denis Hoti, and Ali Guliyev will present their prize winning work done during the VGI Challenge “How does the VGI-Flexi move Rural Areas”.
February: 05: Tizian Wenzel (LMU)
"Deep and greedy kernel methods: Algorithms, Analysis and Applications"
Sommersemester 2024
April 23 - 14 Uhr: Martin Buhmann (Justus-Liebig Universität Giessen)
"New multiquadric-type interpolation and on a regular domain"
April 29 - 16 Uhr Romanos Diogenes Malikiosis* (Aristotle University of Thessaloniki)
"A linear programming approach to Fuglede's conjecture in ℤp3\mathbb{Z}^3_p"
May 08: Anton Kutsenko
"Wave propagation through complex structures with sources and defects"
May 22: Erlangen National High Performance Computing Center
June 05: Götz Pfander & Andrei Caragea
"Exponential bases and Chebotarev-type results on Fourier matrices"
June 12: Dominik Stöger
"Breaking the quadratic rank bottleneck in non-convex matrix sensing: Recovery guarantees with (near-)optimal sample complexity"
June 19: André Uschmajew (Universität Augsburg)
"Gauss–Southwell type descent methods for low-rank matrix optimization"
June 26: Marcel Oliver
"Slow manifolds in rotating fluid flow"
July 03: Mihalis Kolountzakis (University of Crete)
"Common fundamental domains"
July 10: Ilya Krishtal (Northern Illinois University)
"A Spectral Theory Approach to Prony’s Problem"
Wintersemester 2023/24
October 18: Palina Salanevich (Utrecht University)
"Graph Uncertainty Principle and Eigenvector Delocalization"
October 25: Raphael Schulz (KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt) 
"Fluid flow and reactive transport in evolving and clogging porous media"
November 08: Thomas Jahn (KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt)
"Constant width, completeness, and reducedness of convex bodies"
November 15: kein Seminar
November 22: Anton Kutsenko (KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt)
"Branching processes in random environments, asymptotic of the limit distribution"
November 29: Andreas Horst (Technical University of Denmark)
"Inverse problems with Besov prior and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods"
December 04:
Sam Buchanan (Toyota Technological Institute of Chicago)
"Deep Networks and the Multiple Manifold Problem"
December 06: Friedrich Philipp (TU Ilmenau)
"Koopman-based learning of dynamics with guarantees"
December 13: Bin Cheng (University of Surrey)
"Near resonant approximation in Geophysical Fluid Dynamics"
December 20: Nadja Ray (KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt)
"Effective reactive flow and transport models"
Januar 12: Martin Schäfer (TU Chemnitz)
"A Primer on Gate-Based Quantum Computing"
Januar 24: Khadeeja Afzal (KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt)
"An investigation of Nearly Geostrophic flows in Bounded domain"
Januar 31: Manjot Singh (LMU Munich)
"Expressivity of Spiking Neural Networks through the Spike Response Model"
March 18: Florian Semrau (KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt)
"A stochastic, particle based model for testing the impact of correlated representation error on data assimilation"
Sommersemester 2023
May 10: Maximilian Rötzer (FAU Erlangen)
"Explicit, pore scale modeling of the influence of roots on soil aggregation"
May 17: Paul Geuchen
"Optimal approximation using complex-valued neural networks"
May 24: David Walnut (George Mason University)
"Extraction and splitting of Riesz bases of exponentials"
May 31: Andrei Caragea
"More on hierarchical Riesz bases"
June 07: Frank Filbir (Helmholtz Center Munich)
"Marcinkiewicz-Zygmund inequalities, sampling, and approximation of functions"
June 14: Svetlana Loza (Alfred Wegener Institut)
"Combining sea-ice and ocean data assimilation with nudging atmospheric circulation in AWI Coupled Prediction System"
June 21: Marc Tiofack 
"Deterministic and stochastic surrogate model for fast oscillatory motion"
June 28: Günther Wirsching
"Quantum-Inspired Logic"
July 03: Yizhe Zhu
"Effective Algorithms for Differentially Private Synthetic Data Generation"
July 05: no seminar
July 12: 
10:15: Dr. Joerg Steinwagner (Verisk Atmospheric and Environmental Research)
"Applied data assimilation - Wind for renewable energy production prediction"
11:15: Prof. Akram Aldroubi (Vanderbilt University)
"Transport Transforms for Machine Learning"
July 19: Martin Doss (FAU)
"The Full Drying Process of a Colloidal Suspension: Mathematical Modeling and Numerical Simulations"
Wintersemester 2022/23
October 26: Thomas Jahn
“On the optimal constants in the two-sided Stechkin inequalities”
November 02: Dominik Stöger
“Algorithmic Regularization in Overparameterized Asymmetric Matrix Sensing beyond the lazy training regime”
November 08: Tijana Janjic
“Data assimilation and conservation laws”
November 16: Anton Kutsenko
"How random permutations create waves"
December 7: Hannes Matt
"Banach gradient flows for various families of knot energies​​​​"
December 14: Yvonne Ruckstuhl
"A test of an alternative approach for uncertainty representation in data assimilation"
December 21: Götz Pfander
"Barron class functions and avoiding the curse of dimensionality in NN classification”
January 11: Karlheinz Gröchenig (University of Vienna)
“Variable bandwidth and sampling theorems”
January 25: Wolfgang Utschick (TU München)
“Bayesian Inference and Generative Models for Parameter Estimation in Wireless Communication System”
February 1: Simon Zech
"Mechanistic, Integrative Multiscale Modelling of the Turnover of Soil Microaggregates"
February 8: Janin Jäger
"Classes of non-radial kernels for interpolation on spheres and other compact Riemannian manifolds”
March 10: Hans Feichtinger (University of Vienna) 
“Fourier Standard Spaces”



Team of the institute
This team will take over teaching and research at the Mathematical Institute for Machine Learning and Data Science:

Prof. Dr. Pirmin Fontaine
Professor for Logistics and Operations Analytics
[Translate to Englisch:] Pirmin Fontaine
In our research group, the main focus lies in developing efficient solution methods for problem settings in mobility, supply chain management, production, and logistics. The starting point is always real-life applications, formulated as mathematical optimization problems- Then, tailored solution methods are chosen and newly developed. Here, the focus lies on efficient reformulations, decomposition methods (e.g., Benders decomposition and branch-and-repair), and metaheuristics.
Current projects cover, for example: Increasing the resiliency in supply chains using machine learning, Improving on-demand bus systems, or planning urban logistics systems.

More information and further projects can be found here.

Team of Prof. Fontaine
Simon Mader
Simon Mader M. Sc.
Ph.D. student

simon.mader@ku.de
Room: NB-221
Alexander Rave
Dr. Alexander Rave
PostDoc
+49 841 937-21833
ARave@ku.de
Ayşe Nur Bakla
Ayşe Nur Bakla M. Sc.
Ph.D. student
Room: NB-219
Merve Ibis
Merve Ibis M. Sc.
Ph.D. student

Merve.Ibis@ku.de
Room: NB-219
Philipp Parche
Philipp Parche M. Sc.
Ph.D. student

philipp.parche@baw.de
Dennis John
Dennis John M. Sc.
Ph.D. student

dennis.john@ku.de
Room: NB-223
Büşra Nur Dağ
Büşra Nur Dağ M. Sc.
Ph.D. student

buesra.dag@ku.de
Room: NB-219
Stefan Voigt
Dr. Stefan Voigt
Senior Researcher
+49 841 937-21971
stefan.voigt@ku.de
Birgit Jürgens
Birgit Jürgens
Secretary
+49 841 937-21823
birgit.juergens@ku.de
Prof. Dr. Tijana Janjic
Professor for data assimilation
Janjic
Funded by the Heisenberg-Programm of the DFG. 

In order to be able to predict severe weather events or the melting of ice in the Arctic, information in the form of heterogeneous data must be linked with numerical models of dynamic systems. This is done through data assimilation, which makes it possible to better investigate processes and predict their further development.  In the field of data assimilation, the professorship is concerned with the further development of data science algorithms by incorporating physical conservation laws, and solving correspondingly large optimisation problems in the environmental sciences. Quantifying the uncertainties of predictions, numerical models and observations also plays a central role here.

You´ll find more informations here.

Team of Prof. Janjic
Tatsiana Bardachova
Tatsiana Bardachova
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21158
tatsiana.bardachova@ku.de
Catherine George
Catherine George
Research Associate
0841 937-21065
catherine.george@ku.de
Caroline Seibert
Caroline Seibert
Secretary
+49 841 937-21452
caroline.seibert@ku.de
Room: GEOG-103
Prof. Dr. Marcel Oliver
Chair of Applied Mathematics
Oliver
Endowed Chair of the City of Ingolstadt

Member of the Board of the Collaborative Research Center TRR 181 "Energy Transfers in Atmosphere and Ocean"

Prof. Oliver works on modeling and simulation of complex multi-scale systems, in particular in climate science, but also in the bio and material sciences.  In such systems, the range of relevant scales is so vast that we cannot expect that the exponentially growing capacity of modern supercomputers alone will suffice to make scientific progress. We also need to improve our algorithms, develop parametrizations - simplified models for small scale processes - and learn from data and observations.  The research of the group includes structure preserving and energy consistent algorithms, mathematical approaches for model reduction, and dynamic, stochastic, and/or data driven models to represent processes at scales below the computational grid.

You´ll find more informations HERE.

Team of Prof. Oliver
Janin Jäger
Dr. Janin Jäger
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21672
janin.jaeger@ku.de
Mansi Singh
Dr. Mansi Singh
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21836
mansi.singh@ku.de
Ojesh Koul
Dr. Ojesh Koul
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21636
ojesh.koul@ku.de
Hao Liang
Hao Liang
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21635
hao.liang@ku.de
Fabian Stallbauer
Research Associate

fabian.stallbauer@ku.de
Katharina Püchner
Secretary
+49 841 937 23258
katharina.puechner@ku.de
Prof. Dr. Götz Pfander
Chair of Mathematics - Scientific Computing
Pfander
Speaker of the Institute

Co-editor of "Sampling Theory, Signal Processing, and Data Analysis" at "Springer-Verlag"

Research interests include compressive sensing, sampling theory for signals and operators, applied harmonic analysis, and information theory. A recurring theme in the work of the chair is the measurement, analysis and representation of continuous signals by finite sequences.

You´ll find more informations here.

Team of Prof. Pfander
Andrei Caragea
Dr. Andrei Caragea
Research Associate
+49 8421 93-21534
andrei.caragea@ku.de
Felix Bartel
Dr. Felix Bartel
Research Associate

Felix.Bartel@ku.de
Ya-Chun Tsai
Ya-Chun Tsai
Secretary
+49 841 937-21790
ya-chun.tsai@ku.de
Prof. Dr. Nadja Ray
Chair of Geomatics and Geomathematics
Nadja Ray
Endowed professorship of the city of Ingolstadt

The focus of the professorship is geomatics, geomathematics or a related mathematical field related to the geosciences. This includes expertise in inverse problems, modeling in the geosciences, geomonitoring based on mathematical-statistical methods, and the analysis and visualization of spatial data and their integration into geographic information systems. The latter is the basis for long-term planning in transport, infrastructure and natural hazard prevention.

Find more informations HERE.

Team of Prof. Ray
Sarah Eberle-Blick
Dr. Sarah Eberle-Blick
Research Associate

sarah.eberle-blick@ku.de
Chang Peng
Chang Peng
Research Associate

chang.peng@ku.de
Room: GEOG-110
Antje Riess
Antje Riess
Secretary
+49 841 937-21932
antje.riess@ku.de
Prof. Dr. Thomas Setzer
Chair of Business Administration and Business Informatics
Prof. Setzer
Head of the Analytics Working Group of the Society for Operations Research (Gesellschaft für Operations Research)
Program Speaker: Digital and Data-Driven Business (B.Sc.)

In our research we focus on business analytics and designing modern information systems and analytical processes for data-based planning and optimization procedures as well as digital business models and systems. One major focus is on models and methods to analyze, intelligently reduce, transform and utilize complex data sets in decision support systems. The generation of dense and useful features from heterogeneous data sets and the simplification of operational problems by integrating geometric projection and mathematical optimization play an essential role here. The statistical correction of structural biases in decisions and predictions as well as the combination of heterogeneous data, opinions and forecasts are further key areas of our research.

You´ll find more informations HERE

The Team of Prof. Setzer
Veronika Wachslander,
Veronika Wachslander, M. Sc., M. Ed.
Research Associate
0841/937-21998
veronika.wachslander@ku.de
Room: HB-306
André Konersmann,
André Konersmann, M. Sc.
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21920
andre.konersmann@ku.de
Room: HB-306
Waltraud Fischermeier
Waltraud Fischermeier
Secretary
+49 841 937-21871
waltraud.fischermeier@ku.de
Room: HB-304
Prof. Dr. Dominik Stöger
Junior professorship for mathematics - Data Science
Stöger
Supported by  Tenure-Track Programm of BMBF. 

Prof. Stöger's research interests lie in the development and analysis of mathematical methods in machine learning and signal processing. A particular area of focus for his research is the analysis of overparameterized models in machine learning and algorithms for Compressed Sensing and Low-Rank Matrix Recovery. It combines tools from a broad range of mathematical disciplines ranging from high-dimensional probability theory to optimization. He has been collaborating with scientists from different application areas such as wireless communications and image recognition.

You can find more informations here and here.

Team of Prof. Stöger
Ya-Chun Tsai
Ya-Chun Tsai
Secretary
+49 841 937-21790
ya-chun.tsai@ku.de
Prof. Dr. Felix Voigtlaender
Chair of Reliable Machine Learning
Voigtlaender
Funded by the Hightech Agenda Bavaria as part of the consortium "Resource Aware Artificial Intelligence for Future Technologies" of the KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt, the FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg, the TU Munich and the University of Bayreuth. 

Supported by the DFG funded Emmy Noether project "Stability and Solvability in Deep Learning".

The research group "Reliable Machine Learning" mathematically studies the properties of machine learning algorithms. Particular attention is paid to the question of stability or robustness of neural networks. Although trained neural networks often perform extremely well on real data, empirical studies have shown time and again that they are vulnerable to so-called "adversarial examples": A minimal perturbation of the input, invisible to a human, can cause the network to produce an incorrect output. The research group "Reliable Machine Learning" mathematically studies the underlying mechanisms leading to the existence of such adversarial examples, with the aim of developing novel training methods that produce provably robust neural networks. More information on research and teaching of the group can be found here and here.

Team of Prof. Voigtlaender
Hannes Matt
Dr. Hannes Matt
Research Associate
+49 841 937-21559
hannes.matt@ku.de
Junyu Zhou
Junyu Zhou
Research Associate

junyu.zhou@ku.de
Caroline Seibert
Caroline Seibert
Secretary
+49 841 937-21452
caroline.seibert@ku.de
Room: GEOG-103




Jobs at MIDS
With its seven professorships, the Mathematical Institute for Machine Learning and Data Science covers a diverse and varied range of topics. Equally diverse are the job opportunities offered by our professors.

We look forward to receiving your applications.

Student assistants
There is currently no vacancy.

PhD students
The following position is available at Prof. Voigtlaenders team:

Job Posting Prof. Voigtlaender[75 KB | DOCX]
Research assistants
There is currently no vacancy.

News
International Conference in Computational Harmonic Analysis featuring a star speaker
ICHA 2026
The International Conference in Computational Harmonic Analysis, organized by Prof. Pfander of MIDS and Profs Aldroubi and Powell of the University of Vanderbilt took place in late May in Nashville. 

Prof. Yann LeCun, until late 2025 Chief AI Scientist at Meta Platforms gave the Shanks lecture, discussing various AI architectures, outlining the potential of  world models as he is developing with his new Startup Amilabs which he expects will outperform Large Language Models in 3-5 years.  The organizers enjoyed vivid discussions on the role of math in the advancement of AI, the risks of AI, the impact on the job market and many other topics over dinner.
New Scientific Director at MIDS
[Translate to English:] Dr. Jörg Steinwagner
Dr. Jörg Steinwagner is the new Scientific Director at MIDS since May 1, 2026. 
He also supports Professor Janjic’s research group (Chair of Data Assimilation), thereby combining research, teaching, and knowledge transfer. He holds a Ph.D. in meteorology and has many years of experience in the development of data-driven methods, particularly in the fields of satellite-based remote sensing and numerical modeling. His professional career includes work on international research and development projects, including in the areas of Earth observation and weather forecasting.

A key focus of his current work is the design and implementation of knowledge transfer formats on AI and digitalization, as well as the preparation of scientific content tailored to specific audiences for stakeholders from academia, industry, and society. In addition, he develops consulting services and supports the establishment of regional networks, including in cooperation with partners such as AININ and brigk.

Within the context of MIDS, he coordinates key activities such as the Jour Fix, contributes to strategic development, organizes scientific events, and assists with third-party funding applications. In Prof. Janjic’s research group, he is involved in both research and teaching, works on data-driven models and HPC applications, and supports ongoing research projects.

His work helps strengthen the regional AI ecosystem and fosters close collaboration between research and practical application. We are very much looking forward to working with him and warmly welcome him to MIDS.

Back to overview

Chair Team at the Ingolstadt Half Marathon
[Translate to English:] Halbmarathon
Last weekend, our Chair participated in the Ingolstadt Half Marathon. Prof. Pirmin Fontaine, Büsra Nur Dag, Merve Ibis, Dennis John, and Philipp Parche took part as individual runners and as a relay team.

Beyond the sporting challenge, the event was mainly about enjoying the experience together and strengthening team spirit. It was a great opportunity to experience endurance, collaboration, and team spirit outside everyday research and teaching.

Back to overview

New PhD Researcher at the Chair of Analysis: Welcome, Anna Simon
[Translate to English:] Anna Simon 
On 1 May 2026, Anna Simon joins the team at the Chair of Analysis. After successfully completing her Master’s degree in Mathematics at the University of Regensburg, she is now beginning her PhD at KU.

 

Her research focuses on developing new analytical approaches to precisely describe the effective behaviour of thin elastic structures with fine-scale, periodic reinforcements. These questions are motivated by concrete applications in medical technology. Her PhD project is part of the collaborative initiative “MAS-TOB: Multiscale Analysis and Structural Optimisation of Patient-Specific Therapeutic Orthoses and Bandages”, conducted jointly with the RPTU Kaiserslautern-Landau and the Fraunhofer Institute for Industrial Mathematics ITWM, and funded by the Federal Ministry of Research, Technology and Space (BMFTR).

 

A warm welcome to Eichstätt, Anna - we very much look forward to working with you!

Successful PhD Defense of Dr. Johannes Gückel
[Translate to English:] Verteidigung
We are pleased about the successful PhD defense of Johannes Gückel.

Under the supervision of Prof. Pirmin Fontaine, Johannes made a significant contribution to the field of urban logistics and collaboration among logistics service providers. He developed innovative mathematical models, metaheuristics, and machine learning approaches to design efficient and fair cooperative city logistics systems. His work particularly addresses network design, fair cost allocation, and the practical implementation of collaboration concepts. The results demonstrate how efficiency and fairness can be jointly considered in urban freight systems. Johannes now continues his career as a Data Scientist at dm-drogerie markt. We wish him all the best for his future career.

His dissertation resulted in four scientific articles, which have been published or accepted for publication in renowned academic journals:

Gückel, J., Crainic, T.G., & Fontaine, P. (2026). A two-step large neighborhood search for a collaborative two-tier city logistics system. European Journal of Operational Research (VHB: A).
Gückel, J., Crainic, T.G., & Fontaine, P. (2025). Tactical planning in cooperative two-tier city logistics systems with fairness constraints. Sustainability Analytics and Modeling (VHB: B).
Gückel, J., & Fontaine, P. (2025). Fast Shapley Value Approximation Through Machine Learning With Application in Routing Problems. Networks (VHB: A).
Gückel, J. (2025). Approximating Shapley values with subcoalition Shapley values in routing problems. Transportation Research Procedia (VHB: C).

Save the Date: Stukon 26 in Ingolstadt
We are excited to announce the Student Conference of the German Mathematical Society (StuKon26), to take place from September 16–18, 2026, at the KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt.

The event offers recent graduates of all mathematical disciplines a unique platform for networking, workshops, and career insights. There will be exciting lectures, best talk awards, company workshops and a career fair.

Participation is free of charge, though registration is required.

For more information and to register, visit:

www.ku.de/mgf/mathematik/stukon26 

We look forward to seeing you there!



European Meteorological Society at Georgianum
[Translate to English:] Teilnehmer des EMS Councils
The European Meteorological Society (EMS) Council is meeting as a guest of MIDS at the Georgianum. The EMS is the association of meteorological societies in Europe, such as the German Meteorological Society, and is represented by the EMS Council. The meeting in Ingolstadt was initiated by EMS Vice President Dr. Joerg Steinwagner. The Council meets twice a year and, among other things, discusses the society’s strategic direction, deliberates on collaborations, and votes on nominations for the EMS’s numerous awards.

"Förderverein Georgianum" approves scholarship for data science students
Förderverein Georgianum
Last week, the board of the “Förderverein Georgianum” met with its advisory board.

The committee decided to fund a “Deutschlandstipendium” for new data science students next year. This is a great support, and MIDS would like to express its sincere thanks for the funding.

The committee includes the following people, front row, from left to right:
Vice Chairman Prof. Ludwig Mödl
Ingolstadt´s mayor Dr. Michael Kern
Dr. Gerhard Schmidt, Chairman
Götz Pfander, MIDS spokesperson


Data4Good Festival
Data4good Festival
© Sanyam Bajaj
In January, the data4good festival took place at the Hertie School in Berlin. Ali Guliyev, Aleksandra Karabutova, Denis Hoti, Olga Ivanova, Ruslan Tsibirov, and Veronika Rybak from the Data Science program once again took part in the challenge and were very successful by receiving the Best Data Storyteller Award.

After 48 hours at the Data4Good Festival hackathon the team built coRel, a tool using the ReligionMonitor dataset to make religious diversity easier to understand and support stronger communities. 

Link to coRel: https://corel.denishoti.dev/

The entire MIDS team is very proud of your achievement.



Contact
Management
Götz Pfander
Prof. Dr. Götz Pfander
Holder of the Chair Mathematics - Scientific Computing | Speaker of the Mathematical Institute for Machine Learning and Data Science
+49 8421 93-21370
pfander@ku.de
Felix Voigtlaender
Prof. Dr. Felix Voigtlaender
Holder of the Chair for Reliable Machine Learning
+49 8421-93-21328
felix.voigtlaender@ku.de
Jörg Steinwagner
Dr. Jörg Steinwagner
Scientific Director MIDS
0841 937-21253
joerg.steinwagner@ku.de
Administration
Caroline Seibert
Caroline Seibert
Secretary
+49 841 937-21452
caroline.seibert@ku.de
Room: GEOG-103
Katharina Püchner
Secretary
+49 841 937 23258
katharina.puechner@ku.de
Antje Riess
Antje Riess
Secretary
+49 841 937-21932
antje.riess@ku.de
Ya-Chun Tsai
Ya-Chun Tsai
Secretary
+49 841 937-21790
ya-chun.tsai@ku.de
Maps MIDS
Mailing address:

Katholische Universität Eichstätt-Ingolstadt
MIDS
Auf der Schanz 49
85049 Ingolstadt

Visiting address:

Hohe-Schul-Straße 5
85049 Ingolstadt
Sekretariat: 1. Stock, Raum 103